ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
This section supplements and updates certain of the information found under Item 1A. Risk
Factors of each of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2009 (the 2009 Form 10-K) and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods
ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010 (the 2010 First and Second Quarter Forms 10-Q), and
should be read in conjunction with the discussion of risk factors set forth in such sections.
Based on the information currently known to the Company, it believes that the matters discussed
below, together with the risk factors set forth in the 2009 Form 10-K and the 2010 First and
Second Quarter Forms 10-Q, identify the most significant risk factors affecting the Company.
However, the risks and uncertainties that the Company faces are not limited to those described
below and those set forth in the 2009 Form 10-K and the 2010 First and Second Quarter Forms
10-Q. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently
believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the Companys business and the trading price
of its securities.

Risk Factor
Ongoing legal proceedings regarding the Companys anti-steering and surcharging policies could
require changes to those policies that could result in a material loss of revenue or increased
expenses, substantial monetary judgments and/or damage to the Companys global reputation and
brand.
The
Department of Justice (DOJ) and certain state attorneys general have recently brought an action against the Company
alleging that the Companys anti-steering policies that prohibit merchants from discriminating
against the Companys card products in favor of other forms of payment at the point of sale
violate the U.S. antitrust laws. Visa and Mastercard are also defendants in this proceeding,
but they have agreed to settle the complaint. In addition, the Company and its competitor
networks are defendants in a number of actions, including class actions, filed by merchants that
challenge both the Companys and its competitors anti-steering policies as well as surcharging
policies. A description of these legal proceedings is contained in Legal Proceedings above.
An adverse outcome in any of these proceedings against the Company could materially and
adversely impact the profitability of the Company, require it to change its policies in a way
that could expose the Companys card products to steering or other forms of discrimination at
the point of sale, result in the imposition of substantial monetary damages and/or damage the
Companys global reputation and brand. Even if the Company were not required to change its
policies, changes in policies agreed to by Visa and Mastercard pursuant to their settlement
agreement with the DOJ and state attorneys general, or other changes to their policies or
practices as a result of the proceedings brought by merchants against them, could subject the
Company to market pressures that force it to make certain changes to its own policies and
practices, which could materially and adversely impact its profitability.

 Folio 
86
 /Folio 
 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
